Stephanie (she/her) (00:00)
Stephanie. And I the work that I do is mostly conversational hypnosis for people with ADHD. And when Kim and I were both when I lived in Snohomish County, Kim and I both went to a networking group that was all women and they were all very, very supportive, and that's where I met Kim.

Kim Pelham (00:17)
Yeah, and I while I differently.

So we started working together 'cause I he struggles with the ADHD. And so Stephanie actually started coming and doing coaching with Brian. he found it, you know, really helpful.

Stephanie (she/her) (00:34)
Yeah, I I did a lot of people management, a lot of leadership and years.

And then my first foray into the coaching world before I knew anything about it was with something called the model, which is a very like cerebral way of looking at how to change your circumstances through your thoughts. what I found that's really interesting is that as I was studying to get like my certification and stuff, I discovered

That there was one element that in that I was meant in my life to just like erase from people's lives, I had a lot of shame for a long time. And it also led to panic attacks and anxiety.

also shame decreases your executive function and your working memory. And ADHDers have a lot of shame because they were corrected a lot, like a lot more than their peers. So then they kind of we often kind of absorb this message that there's something wrong with us. And that creates a deep like shame that's the the that's truly the water that we're swimming in in a way that we don't even know that it's happening.

And so going back to my experience in the coaching world, when I found coaching, it helped me to unshame my tendencies, it helped me to get my executive function and my working memory back. And it really freed me from that place of shame that I had grown up in. However, as I was going through these

I discovered something that surprised me, and that is that they also had this like newly branded flavor of shame when they couldn't get their mindset right. heck no, we are not doing that. So it really shifted

back.

fast.

Yeah. So when I discovered that one of the primary places where I have the most skills to support people is in their ADHD. And what I found was that what people come to me for is often when they are recently diagnosed with ADHD or they've had ADHD and they've been able to manage it. And then one more thing happens, such as postpartum.

depression or anxiety or just overwhelm. menopause greatly reduces the person's working memory. And so then all of a sudden the tips and tricks that have worked for their ADHD in the past suddenly don't work anymore. So usually people come to me to kind of like fix their ADHD, which is funny because that's

not what we actually need to do. What we find is that most of the things that connect to ADHD that are the real problems are peripheral to the actual neurotype. So I'm never gonna try to make you neurotypical, but we will figure out how to make your ADHD like live in a soft environment where

your executive function and your working memory can work. And so most people come to me once they've kind of gotten to this point where their ADHD isn't being managed in a way that's allowing them to move forward in their dreams and goals. Like it feels like this roadblock that they're like, well, if it wasn't for ADHD, then I could do X, Y, and Z. When people feel like that, they come to me for help.

we make sure that the changes we want to make are aligned to who they actually are so that they can live in the world as And so that's the first thing we do. And then when we figure out what those specific changes are that is gonna make the most difference in their like in getting them to move forward, we change that through conversational hypnosis primarily.

Which is a four step process of change that directly impacts like your neuro pathways so that we can change those neuropathways directly in like a single session. And so change then in that way happens very fast.

Yeah, long-term goals and also short-term relief. And so under the bucket of short-term relief, I have these what I call like the ADHD first aid kit, which is this set of four tools that nervous system regulation tools. one of them, for example, is bilateral stimulation. As simple as it is, you guys can all do this with me if you want.

find a pen or your phone or something and you just take it in your hand and you pass it back and forth rhythmically across your body so you're crossing the midline. And as you do that, what happens is that like anxiety, for example, or that flustered feeling you have, that tends to be overactivated in one part of your brain. And so when you do this, it forces the other parts of your brain to light up.

And now you can't be hyper focused on that one spot of anxiety anymore. And so it gives you just enough like freedom from the situation, like it untethers you from that feeling just enough that you can start thinking through what you would like to think and do instead of sitting in a bundle of anxiety, for example.

And of course, by now you should be feeling better. And so but we also use it in our conversational hypnosis change work as one of the steps to start changing those neuropathways. So it's actually one of the steps in the kind of longer term change work, but in the short term, you can do it anytime you're feeling like worked up, and that feeling is

keeping you from being able to make the decisions that you want to make or move forward in your day.

as I mentioned before, the the people who come to me, it's like they have ADHD, but then one more thing happens. And one of those things that can happen that just pushes your ability to function over the edge is moving.

Moving is one of the hardest things for an ADHD brain because the pathways that you've already created, which were a took a lot of work to create the pathways of where do I put this? Where do I go to get this? Like those types of things that you have to think about. When you move, you have to think about everything actively every time you take any step, right?

You have to remember where the new thing is that you put somewhere. You have to remember where which box you put stuff in. And then just the absolute overwhelm of having, you know, every part of the process, packing everything up is super overwhelming. Making decisions about every single thing creates so much decision fatigue. The physical act of moving it over, and then how you reset up your life.

takes months and people don't understand that moving is it takes months. It's not just the the act of doing it. It's all of the lead up to it of stress and then all of the settling back in that can take up to a a year to just settle into basic routines again. And so

I think that what Kim does is really helpful because she does take care of her clients emotionally while she's supporting them in the buying process. and so that's where I feel like there's a lot of connection and collaboration between the work that she does and the work that I do.

I wanna tell you something that I just learned about that that's really fun. So you know how ADHD is we talk a lot about dopamine because dopamine is a is a regulator of gives you action steps, right? It like gives you the omph to take action. The thing is it's not the only thing, it's not the only chemical that can help you take action.

The other chemicals that can help you take action are serotonin and oxytocin, which we think of those like lovey dovey friend chemicals, right? But the thing is that body doubling leans on those chemicals rather than leaning on dopamine.

And so because of that, it's some it's there are chemicals that are created by body doubling because there's another person and there's connection happening. And so then you get those chemicals and that's those chemicals are activated in order to make the changes rather than relying on dopamine that you may or may not have.

I'd love

to yeah, I'd love to direct people to my website, which is just adh with Stephanie dot com. That's also where people can find the the tools, the toolkit for nervous system regulation.

I

So the way that I like to think about ADHD in society is that basically, well, first of all, there is not different boxes of neurotypes. There isn't ADHD and autism and neurotypical as these different boxes. We all have different neurology. Like our neurology chain is completely different for different people. And there's like a

you know, this huge range of how people operate and how their chemicals, like their brain chemicals function and stuff like that. What happens though is that our society has changed very, very rapidly in the last few hundred years. So that what is expected of people is vastly different than what used to be expected of people. So people used to be very well adapted to an agreed

agriculture based lifestyle before that to hunter and hunter-gatherer type expectations of how their brain would operate and that worked well for people. Now we're expecting people to sit down and be quiet. And there's only a s you know a specific types of like neurotypes where that is an easy an easy lift.

Kim Pelham (11:53)
you

Stephanie (she/her) (12:11)
And that's kind of the box that we've put around neurotypical. And at this point, everyone who is neurodivergent is anyone who lives outside of that box. So that's how I like to look at the reason why there's been a huge increase in ADHD over the years. I that is not to say that it is like made up.

Are not significant. It is extremely significant because how those of us with ADHD operate in society as it is right now is incredibly disabling. I don't consider the ADHD itself to be disabling so much as I consider that the way society's expectations are disables people who are not neurotypical. And then you were asking about people who

kind of self-diagnosed or have noticed in adulthood that they have these signs of ADHD but they've never been diagnosed and maybe their their life does function well enough that they haven't bothered to get a diagnosis. I think that's fine. The cool thing to know for anyone who has not been diagnosed but is suspicious that they might have it is simply this. If it's accommodating to ADHD years, it will be helpful for you.

So pick and choose the types of things, like learn from people with ADHD and ADHD tools to, you know, just add a little ease to your life by adding in things that support your brain, whether or not you've been formally diagnosed, or if you even, you know, suspect you have it, or maybe you just have these little tiny signs of it and maybe you couldn't actually be like formally diagnosed, but things that help people who have ADHD.

can also help you if, you know, if you're struggling in the same kinds of ways. So I just look at it in a very, very pragmatic way.

Yeah, so I do a lot of work within communities. So I have my coaching cohort that's a small group of people.

That meet once a week, and I've priced it at $250 a month so that it's very accessible to most people. And that's an example of a way that life can become so much easier because every Monday morning we look forward to the connection and knowing that from each other we will find acceptance and community and understanding. And that witnessing of each other's struggles is part of the unshaming work that needs to happen.

there's the unshaming work that just comes simply by the fact that we meet in the change work that we do will completely remove anxiety from specific situations. It will give you clarity on the decisions that you need to make and your life can become a lot softer.

And what happens over time, then, you know, kind of in the long term is people start noticing how they how they actually function within their body and start to create a life around them that accommodates that. So then, you know, six months down the road, you find that your life as a whole is operating more in your favor. And that's kind of how one of the ways that you can

Really change your own life, the way that it feels, and your the environment around you. And then, of course, years down the road, you'll find yourself in a completely different place because you're getting the support, because you know and accept your body and your brain and the way that it functions. And in doing so, the changes that you start to make make your entire world align to the way that you operate naturally so that.

rather than spending 80% of the time you might spend 80% of your time doing what's very easy and comes very natural for you. And then when you have those one off things that are challenging

that you really have to like work against the way that you naturally function. It doesn't exhaust you so much because you have a little more reserve and a little more bandwidth.

My name is some quick tips and tricks for how to calm your nervous system when you get amped up.

If you find your ADHD getting in the way of the progress that you're wanting to make, and maybe it's not just your ADHD, but one more thing has happened in your life, like moving or menopause or postpartum struggles or

Kim Pelham (16:53)
I'm Kim Pelham and I do residential real estate differently. What's different? Well, my husband's a general contractor and we combine our businesses to help people get their homes ready for sale. we can help you all the way from the process of downsizing.

we can do the remodeling and we can clean we can clean out the fridge if you want us to do that. All the way through staging and expert sales of your house.

I'm Kim Pelham, doing residential real estate differently, making it easy to move.

have you heard my Double D commercial?

What do you think of when I say double D, triple D, six or seven D's? my god, ladies, I am not talking about giant bras. I am talking about the people who are moving, the people who are actually selling their house. They are dead. They are divorcing, they're downsizing, they're departing the area, they have debt, they might have diamonds because they just got married.

Or maybe they have diapers because they got new kids. These are the people who are selling their houses. So when you hear somebody who's got a D, refer them to me because I can help them with all their D's.

Okay, I got another one. Okay, this is the other one I do. It's like my god, I can't wait to move. I love to downsize. I love to pack. I love everything about fixing my house up said nobody ever. We all hate that stuff. It's awful. It's boring. It's hard. It's heavy work. My back hurts just thinking about it. So that's why I created the home transition team.

We'll help you with the downsizing, all the decisions you have to make to make it easier to get unstuck. We can do all the moving and the packing for you. We can even clean out your refrigerator and handle the painting I'm Kim Pelham and I'm doing residential real estate differently.

